**`Main Page`** / **[`Step 1`](1. create-bintray-repo-and-package.md)** / **[`Step 2`](2. create-tvh.ubuntu.build.deps.md)** / **[`Step 3`](3. create-private-bitbucket-repo.md)** / **[`Step 4`](4. create-private-docker-images.md)**

## Builder Setup Guide

Apt package builders for tvheadend on ubuntu. This guide is expressly for members of tvheadend project only.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
 

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Trigger token](#trigger-token)
- [Steps](#steps)
- [Reliability - online services](#reliability---online-services)
  - [Github.com](#githubcom)
  - [Bitbucket.org](#bitbucketorg)
  - [Dockerhub](#dockerhub)
  - [Bintray](#bintray)
- [End-of-life planning (discontinuation of service)](#end-of-life-planning-discontinuation-of-service)
- [Reliability - build triggers](#reliability---build-triggers)
- [Package linking on bintray](#package-linking-on-bintray)
- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [History](#history)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

### Overview

The build scripts are here:

* [Dockerfile - Build Dependancies](https://github.com/tvheadend/tvheadend-build/blob/master/ubuntu/deps/Dockerfile)
* [Dockerfile - Master branch - Nightly builds](https://github.com/tvheadend/tvheadend-build/blob/master/ubuntu/master/Dockerfile)
* [Dockerfile - Unstable Releases](https://github.com/tvheadend/tvheadend-build/blob/master/ubuntu/unstable/Dockerfile)
* [Dockerfile - Stable branch - Nightly builds](https://github.com/tvheadend/tvheadend-build/blob/master/ubuntu/testing/Dockerfile)
* [Dockerfile - Stable Releases](https://github.com/tvheadend/tvheadend-build/blob/master/ubuntu/stable/Dockerfile)

Builds are run nightly, triggered from a cron job:

* https://github.com/dreamcat4/dh-trigger

```sh
# tvheadend dependancies - Rebuild 1x per week at 00:15am UTC every monday morning
15 00 * * mon [ "$(date +%z)" = "+0000" ] && $HOME/.bin/dh-trigger all dreamcat4/tvh.ubuntu.build.deps
15 01 * * mon [ "$(date +%z)" = "+0100" ] && $HOME/.bin/dh-trigger all dreamcat4/tvh.ubuntu.build.deps

# tvheadend .deb pkgs - Rebuild at 01:15am UTC every morning
15 01 * * * [ "$(date +%z)" = "+0000" ] && $HOME/.bin/dh-trigger all dreamcat4/dpi
15 02 * * * [ "$(date +%z)" = "+0100" ] && $HOME/.bin/dh-trigger all dreamcat4/dpi
```

The resulting `.deb` files / APT repo is here:

* https://bintray.com/dreamcat4/ubuntu/tvheadend

* We build everything using accounts under our own username. Then use Bintray's *link packages* feature so that they also appear under the [official Tvheadend Bintray account](https://bintray.com/tvheadend/ubuntu).

*The image building process is run on Dockerhub, including the necessary steps to auto-upload  / publish the resulting .deb files on bintray.com. We do not need to run build jobs on a local computer. The work of the 'builder' images does everything. (you may also use Docker to build the images locally, for easier development / debugging).*

*In other words, all of the work is in the setting up a complete build chain / automated workflow. Therefore that is what all of the detailed steps (extra pages) are all talking about.*

However *this page* is a discussion of overall management and general considerations. E.g. project oversight and specifics of the day-to-day running.

### Requirements

It is recommended that there are always 2 project members who are independantly building the tvheadend ubuntu pkgs. That way, if one member's build breaks or leaves the project / becomes unresponsive. Then then 1 other person is still around, and with a working alternate build of the packages running in parallel.

This guide exists to:

* Help train up 2nd project member. To make a seperate alternating working builds flow. From start to finish.
* Help other project member make alternate versions for other distros. e.g. Debian or RPM versions for Centos, Fedora, etc.
* Help other project member make alternate versions for other architectures. e.g. Cross-compile ARM builds for Rpi etc.

You will need:

* A Github Account (https://github.com/)
* A Bitbucket account (https://bitbucket.org/)
* A Docker Hub account (https://hub.docker.com/)
* A Bintray account (https://bintray.com/)
* A cron job to trigger builds with your docker hub API key*.

***And also:***

* An understanding of Git and Docker will be needed for managing this build process.

* User accounts should all be registered under your own regular username. e.g. `dreamcat4`, `negge`, `perexg`, `profyaffle`, etc.

***Note:***

If you are against using your own personal account, it is also viable to create instead a 'machine accounts'. For all of these tasks. That should not be named exactly as `tvheadend` username but something else like `tvh_mach_01` etc. To clearly indicate it is an automated and scripted account.

However I don't really recommend having any such machine account. Technically it is not necessary, and introduces an extra management overhead. Since you then need to keep track of an extra set of all ssh keys, login credentials etc. Which may be confused or lost (get locked out). And it is more hassle sharing secure credentials with other project members. It creates an unnecessary security risk. And generally users are not as much motivated to keep shared account credentials safe when the responsibility is ambiguous and shared between more than 1 members.

However there is an official `tvheadend`  bintray account. That is a meta-account which only links to the actual packages available at `bintray/[yourUsername]`. See [Package linking on bintray](#package-linking-on-bintray) for more details about that.

### Trigger token

* A cron job (last step) must be set up on a secure computer that you yourself control. As it requires access to your docker hub trigger token in plain text. The cron job does not build anything locally. It just triggers the remote server(s) to start a new build run.

* Actually the trigger token cannot do very much damage if mis-used. It is rate-limited. And can only ever tirgger the rebuild on it's designated dockerhub repo.

* Therefore, a trigger token is safe to be re-distributed amongst project members. It does not hold any user account login credentials

* The main use for sharing the trigger token is to let individuals manually re-trigger a new APT build of master branch part way during the day.

* For example when the lead developer (perexg) pushes out a specific fix and it needs to be re-tested. If a new rebuild of the master `.deb` files takes about 30 minutes to complete.

* Then user can `apt-get update` and reinstall the updated master branch of tvheadend. Without having to wait until next day for the automatic nightlies.

### Steps

To reproduce / duplicate a full build chain. From end-to-end. Then you must follow these steps:

**[`Step 1`](1. create-bintray-repo-and-package.md)**

* Create bintray repo and package for tvheadend
  * This is where the builder (a docker image) will upload our .deb packages to
* On bintray.com
  * Create a new Debian repo, named: `ubuntu`
    * Copy all the same settings from https://bintray.com/dreamcat4/ubuntu
  * Create a new package named `tvheadend`
    * Copy all the settings from https://bintray.com/dreamcat4/ubuntu/tvheadend

**[`Step 2`](2. create-tvh.ubuntu.build.deps.md)**

* Create public docker image of tvheadend's build dependancies
  * On Github
    * Create git repo of build files for the `tvh.ubuntu.build.deps` docker image
  * On Dockerhub
    * Create new public repo named `tvh.ubuntu.build.deps`
      * As automated build
      * Get build trigger api token
  * On developer PC / server machine (via ssh) as regular user
    * Setup cron job to automatically re-build deps image once a week

**[`Step 3`](3. create-private-bitbucket-repo.md)**

* On Bitbucket
  * Create private git repo
    * Call it `dpi` - for 'Dockerhub private images'
* Initialize repo
  * Copy over `ubuntu/` folder from public repo
* In local working copy of your `dpi` bitbucket private repo
  * Put your bintray usernname and API key into the file `bintray-env` of each build folder
  * Push changes up to bitbucket

**[`Step 4`](4. create-private-docker-images.md)**

* Create private docker images to build the tvheadend APT packages for ubuntu
  * First create your 1 free private docker hub repo (you are only allowed 1)
    * Call it `dpi` - for 'Dockerhub Private Images' or something like that.
  * Create new Docker tag named `tvh.build.ubuntu.master` --> builds docker image `dreamcat4/dpi:tvh.build.ubuntu.master`
    * Point it to your bitbucket private repo
  * Repeat the previous step for each of the 4 build folders: `master`, `unstable`, `testing` and `stable`.

### Reliability - online services

This new build process may seem a bit fragile, considering that it requires multiple online services to all be functioning at around the same time. However if we break things down, we can assess the reliability of each service. And consider likely weak points.

#### Github.com

Github has an established history and is pretty reliable. It recently suffered an unprecedented DDOS attack, and coped remarkably well. Oft Not only that, but the `tvheadend/tvheadend` git repo is hosted on github itself.

We use github for public version of the builder files. Which is not critical at build time. We also use github for building the dependancies base image (which has no api keys in it so can be fully public). However that image is not built very often, e.g. 1x per week or 1x per month. Which is not time-critical to the nightly builds whatsoever.

#### Bitbucket.org

We depend on the github repo for 2 things:

* A free private repo (to include API keys in our build scripts)
* Nightly builds, it must be accessible at the time the build is triggered.

Butbucket is less well known - so I don't have any reliability data to share. However the service seem pretty reliable. It would be more of a concern is they took away free private repos for free OSS accounts.

Somehow that seems the more likely occurance than longtime service disruption of bitbucket.org.

At which point, there is not much we could do about it. Perhaps apply and request from eithe rBitbucket or Github support a private OSS repo on `tvheadend` account. Stating our need for holding API keys, and a public version (these files) also kept available without the api keys in them. Else host a private git repo on tvheadend.org using gitorious / gitlab / etc.

#### Dockerhub

This is probably the most unreliable service which we are depending upon. At time of writing, dockerhub can quite frequently have some level service disruption. Either partial 'go slow' or full. However it never lasts too terribly long. Usually a few hours. Never for more than a day.

At worst, we might find a couple of days per month the nightly re-build was skipped. That will only affect us if there were new commits to the branch on the previous day. Once service is restored, we are back to the latest commit for those (master,stable) branches.

So generally speakign (for our purposes). Service reliability is 'good enough'. It also seems a small price to pay consider it is the dockerhub which is performing 100% all of the building task for us.

Of course, another possibility is that in future the Dockerhub may change it's policy and take away the '1 free private repo'. And we cannot predict that eventuality.

#### Bintray

Bintray is a new service, so unfortunately I don't have any service reliability to pass on. However it *seems to be pretty solid*. As far as I can tell during the short time of testing it.

Since bintray actually hosts the APT repos for us. Then any widthwrawl of service would be problematic. However the fact that the bintray apt repo is de-coupled from the dockerhub builder images, means that we could move either service over independantly of the other one.

So if bintray goes away, we could still upload to another public APT repo somewhere else instead. *Or just do that as a matter of course now anyway so we upload to 2 public apt repos always.*

### End-of-life planning (discontinuation of service)

There is no way to predict when one of these online services becomes intermittend or unreliable, or may widthdraw from OSS use / becomes broken. So depending upon them may seem like a bad idea.

However the benefit is being open source, free, and no need to pay for private hosting is a high upside.

It is expected that by the time the builds eventually breaks, then launchpad.net should have had enough time to fully implement their new 'native' git-mirroring feature. Once that is in place, the Tvheadend project can look to build on launchpad.net's free PPA build farm. And make official ubuntu PPAs the regular way.

So effectively - this solution was meant to be a stop-gap between now & then. Future tvheadend team members, or a reliable 3rd party should look to implement properly on launchpad.net such a replacement PPA scheme. *And prefereably before the current builds system gets broken, e.g. as soon as launchpad.net implements the necessary native git mirrorin feature(s).*

### Reliability - build triggers

We must setup a cron job from other PC or server that is 'always online'. To `curl` a tigger token in a webhook (it is called a 'docker hub build trigger').

So if our local developer server goes offline or the cron job fails. Then the build will not be triggered. And no new packages for so many days until somebody notices and the cron job gets fixed.

***Solution:***

The docker hub 'build triggers' feature has a policy, such that we cannot trigger the same build within a 5 minute time window. It is for protection against DDOS attacks.

https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/builds/#remote-build-triggers

*Quote:*

> Note: You can only trigger one build at a time and no more than one every five minutes. If you already have a build pending, or if you recently submitted a build request, those requests will be ignored. To verify everything is working correctly, check the logs of last ten triggers on the settings page .

Therefore it is recommended to set up the same exact cron jobs on multple different developer machines. Preferably on multiple sites to protect also against ISP service disruption. (e.g. Work + Home). Then if one of your machines goes offline, or it's cron job stops working. Then at least 1 other machine will still be sending requests to trigger the build at that same time.

So long as all of the identical build requests are being sent within the same 5 minute window, then all extra requests will simply be ignored. And this solves the reliability problem of cron task.

### Package linking on bintray

It is not recommended to use the official `tvheadend` user account name for building and uploading. I recommend to use your pre-existing and established user account name.

The official 'tvheadend' user account on bintray.com is a meta-account. And administered just to 'link to' the other bintray packages (the ones hosted from your own `username` account). This way it is very easy for use to switch over to an alternate source for official packages. e.g. to change over maintainer, or a broken builds chain, or upgrade the builds system. The official `tvheadend` account is just pointing to those other ones.

Bintray package linking, see here:

https://bintray.com/docs/usermanual/uploads/uploads_exposingyourpackagetotheworldthroughmorepopularrepositorieslinkingapackage.html

### Motivation

This new build system was created in part to get a better public daily builds of tvheadend for ubuntu. But more so as an example for other community maintainers. Who might wish to develop a parallel builds system for other popular build targets such as RPM or ARM builds. The personal motivation was to get `.deb` files for building stable and reliable docker images of tvheadend.

### History

v1 - Dreamcat4 (dreamcat4@gmail.com) - 05/2015

* Initial version
* Dependancies image build - built once weekly
* Branch nightly builds
* Created `dh-trigger` tool to trigger the nightly builds with

v2 - Dreamcat4 (dreamcat4@gmail.com) - 06/2015

* Simplified APT repo structure
* Improved use of the APT `distro` and `component` fields
* Improved the error handling to fail if pkgs could not be uploaded to the Bintray APT repo
* Folder rename from `tvh.ubuntu.build` ---> `tvh/` + `ubuntu.build/`
* Added tagged builds for `stable` and `unstable` official releases
* Fixed 2x cron lines to be independant of the local Daylight Savings time
* Moved files over into dedicated official repo - `tvheadend/tvheadend-build`
* Moved `dh-trigger` tool into it's own standalone repo
* Fixed documentation links / URLs to point to new file locations.


